Caption: Wow full room popular talk last stop for
Caption: lunch as well I'm so delighted to have
Caption: had a hear from particular software the
Caption: creators of in service boss before I
Caption: hand you over I'll let you just mention
Caption: two things there's time allowing we will
Caption: have Q&A at the end of this session but
Caption: as we're rolling in to lunch I'm sure
Caption: hopefully it's not asking too much of
Caption: Hattie to field any questions after that
Caption: as well and also for all of our speakers
Caption: feedback is incredibly important I would
Caption: encourage everyone for all the sessions
Caption: that you go to today go to DDD Perth
Caption: size and fever for the sessions that you
Caption: attend so without further adieu for me
Caption: here's how do you talk about micro
Caption: services UI composition some challenges
Caption: and some solutions just a quick show of
Caption: hands who has done micro services before
Caption: ok so before we get into the actual talk
Caption: I'd like to thank our sponsors make this
Caption: happen so far the quality of the
Caption: presentations had been through the roof
Caption: really great now who has seen this page
Caption: before people the interesting thing
Caption: about this page is if you've had online
Caption: shopping experience before is that the
Caption: question I asked that does this page
Caption: ever exist you've seen this before so it
Caption: does exist but what I mean is that is
Caption: there a notion of a HTML page sitting
Caption: somewhere on a disk or maybe if you're a
Caption: developer is there a concept of an
Caption: aggregate truth like a product table of
Caption: some sort behind the space serving the
Caption: Sun if you have a little bit more in
Caption: depth look into the construct of this
Caption: page you can see there are areas that
Caption: are closely related to each other and
Caption: some things that are not as much we
Caption: could identify that in a few key areas
Caption: but the interesting thing is that in
Caption: order for that page to get rendered we
Caption: need bits of bits and pieces of
Caption: information coming together and
Caption: representing to represent it to us as a
Caption: web page so we could have that shopping
Caption: expertness
Caption: know where that data is coming from
Caption: today know having a look at that page
Caption: you could identify a few key areas
Caption: obviously first one is sales which
Caption: manages price and currency conversions
Caption: and things like that there is the
Caption: inventory which does how many stock on
Caption: the items and having that in the very
Caption: house and there are availability the
Caption: next one is shutting a shipping if you
Caption: have gone but try to shop in Amazon in
Caption: the US you might see there are rules
Caption: that tells you that you're not allowed
Caption: to ship this stuff to Australia and
Caption: something like that those belong to a
Caption: shipping service there is the marketing
Caption: aspect there's the product name the
Caption: images description and things like that
Caption: and last but not least there's the
Caption: ratings and reviews and customer and
Caption: comments so if we say we're going to
Caption: design this system as a micro service
Caption: those are for your kind of your system
Caption: system services or micro services for
Caption: lack of a better term but in order to
Caption: answer where the data should be how big
Caption: should be flown in order to have that
Caption: pager in there we need to understand
Caption: what a micro service is so micro
Caption: services have the few characteristics
Caption: first and foremost it's an architectural
Caption: style just like back in the day
Caption: three-tier architecture
Caption: thing marker services is an
Caption: architectural style think of it as that
Caption: but has a few characteristics as well
Caption: first and foremost is that it needs to
Caption: the services needs to be autonomous
Caption: now autonomy means a few things toggling
Caption: means that a service on its own should
Caption: be able to operate so that means that
Caption: there is no shared state or shared
Caption: database between the services another
Caption: mean each autonomy is that marker
Caption: service is something logical it's not
Caption: something physical it's not a physical
Caption: component that you deploy among your
Caption: server on the cloud it's a logical
Caption: phenomenon where it has everything
Caption: that's between the front end all the way
Caption: to the Bandit back end it all belongs to
Caption: that service now what what this means is
Caption: that think of it as a vertical layer or
Caption: vertical slice everything from that HTML
Caption: page all the way to the database on the
Caption: backend as well as all the server-side
Caption: components they all fit in that vertical
Caption: slice which makes that makes a service
Caption: or a micro service another aspect to
Caption: that is how the team is structured to
Caption: create that marker services we get to
Caption: that in a bit but it means that the
Caption: teams need to be cross-functional team
Caption: we get to that in the next slide the
Caption: other characteristic is about micro
Caption: services is that it needs to be around
Caption: the business capability so something
Caption: like our than authentication you might
Caption: have code base is something called
Caption: authentication service that's not really
Caption: a business capability unless you're into
Caption: authentication business so it is very
Caption: important for the services to be around
Caption: the business capabilities needs to be
Caption: some sort of an alignment coming from
Caption: the business and that shakes and forms
Caption: and the boundaries of democracy
Caption: and the last but not least is kind of
Caption: unfortunate name of Marco services that
Caption: implies certain size don't meet you now
Caption: understand how big or small they need to
Caption: be to be a micro service right so how
Caption: large and small should they be is that
Caption: the answer is that the size is
Caption: irrelevant you think that before that
Caption: comes from the concept of pizza teams
Caption: you might have heard from agile before
Caption: and that is coming from Martin Fowler
Caption: saying that the size of a marker service
Caption: is not so much important as the talk to
Caption: the team that's writing that or owning
Caption: that as we said the team needs to be
Caption: cross functioning they need to be able
Caption: to manage all the aspects of that
Caption: vertical slice from the UI all the way
Caption: to the back end so it means that the
Caption: team needs to be certain size it's
Caption: recommended somewhere between one or two
Caption: Pizza size teams to manage a macro
Caption: service now the longer answer is that
Caption: the size isn't really that important if
Caption: you have done services any kind of
Caption: services using Java you know that it's
Caption: kind of a verbose language you need to
Caption: write quite a few lines of code to get
Caption: the service up and running and something
Caption: like go or Russ the you don't need that
Caption: many lines to get a service up so the
Caption: fact that you rely on the language it
Caption: makes the whole number of lines of code
Caption: to make that marker service kind of
Caption: irrelevant
Caption: now we're gonna have a look at how we
Caption: gathered that data that we saw on the
Caption: first page how we compose that page for
Caption: the for the clients sitting like and
Caption: behind the browser and it usually comes
Caption: into two forms where usually it's like
Caption: pulling the data so the browser or user
Caption: of those and the fetches information
Caption: from the services or it's usually the
Caption: other way around for some of the
Caption: services like notifications and push and
Caption: things like that so it's usually one of
Caption: one of one or the other gonna focus a
Caption: little bit more on pulling side of it so
Caption: we'll see a few patterns if you will I
Caption: call this one a pool approach so usually
Caption: have your browser application and if you
Caption: have designed your system as we saw you
Caption: end up with a bunch of marker services
Caption: for lack of a better term and the way it
Caption: works is that you open a web page
Caption: request needs to go and catch all the
Caption: information but because you have you
Caption: know you're packing services divided
Caption: there needs to be some sort of quite a
Caption: few issues going all the way to the
Caption: backend fetching all the information
Caption: bringing them back up to the client and
Caption: managing that whole request and response
Caption: and rendering that information for a
Caption: user on a web page now this has a few
Caption: issues on the back end you have done
Caption: your homework and you you know you've
Caption: done your system boundaries and service
Caption: boundaries are kind of decouple so
Caption: everything looks fine but on the client
Caption: because of the fact that it's
Caption: issuing multiple requests to the backend
Caption: and it causes a few issues first and
Caption: foremost is that most majority of the
Caption: websites are running on HTTP 1.1 and
Caption: that has a limitation of 48 concurrent
Caption: requests and that 48 concurrent request
Caption: is everything that's images in
Caption: JavaScript and styles and everything so
Caption: this by definition is going to slow down
Caption: your
Caption: experience or website http/2 might be a
Caption: solution for that but majority of
Caption: websites are not running on HTTP to
Caption: another issue with this approach is that
Caption: imagine if you are rendering a list or a
Caption: table or grid learning information are
Caption: coming from all those back-end services
Caption: and because all the bits and pieces are
Caption: in different services you end up in a
Caption: situation where you have it and plus one
Caption: issue because you have a list and
Caption: everything is divided up at the backend
Caption: so it has that that flaw as well now in
Caption: order to work around that shortcomings
Caption: some people come up with this approach
Caption: say in order to get around that number
Caption: of concurrent requests limitation let's
Caption: put something intermediary in the middle
Caption: and that intermediary thing goes around
Caption: and fetches the information and because
Caption: that's running in the server space it's
Caption: not bound to that limitation so it goes
Caption: around that get gathers all the
Caption: information and another good thing about
Caption: this is that the client doesn't need to
Caption: juggle with that request response coming
Caption: from different sources it puts them in a
Caption: normalized form in that centric
Caption: repository and then the coin goes and
Caption: gets issues requests and gets the data
Caption: back and remember step now the way this
Caption: is usually implemented is using batch
Caption: jobs and you got a bunch of batch jobs
Caption: running and that thing in the middle and
Caption: they go and fetch the information put it
Caption: in the central repository that's usually
Caption: yes sort of a cache and the client goes
Caption: and reads the information there now it
Caption: solves that concurrency issue number of
Caption: concurrent requests but what it doesn't
Caption: solve or mess up is that it takes away
Caption: that autonomy that we talked about
Caption: because as soon as the information it
Caption: goes out of your service boundaries it's
Caption: a store somewhere else you can't trust
Caption: its
Caption: accuracy or it being fresh anyone has
Caption: done bad jobs they know that they're
Caption: prone to fail so whether you go to work
Caption: the batch of has failed information is
Caption: stale the clients still reading it
Caption: so it's not really trust able other than
Caption: that there is the issue of cash and cash
Caption: in validating so as we said you put this
Caption: information in a normalized form no
Caption: because the price is coming from one
Caption: service and the product reviews are
Caption: coming in the other service you need to
Caption: be able to invalidate part of that
Caption: object in the cash which is not easy now
Caption: there is a similar approach that called
Caption: this push approach where you still have
Caption: that thing in the middle but we reverse
Caption: the order of the flow so we're not
Caption: reliant on that batch jobs that are
Caption: failing so what do we say we go with a
Caption: message queue so they put in a bunch of
Caption: cues in our services and those cues are
Caption: pushing all the information into that
Caption: centric cache and ultimately client is
Caption: easy to write because it needs to
Caption: interface with just one thing doesn't
Caption: need to juggle all the requests and
Caption: responses and it works just like before
Caption: this doesn't solve it solves the issue
Caption: with the bad jobs right but it doesn't
Caption: solve is that autonomy again the
Caption: information is pushed from the boundary
Caption: of the service into that centric
Caption: repository but as soon as it leaves that
Caption: that a boundary of that service it can't
Caption: really trust its accuracy or the
Caption: freshness of the data the fact that
Caption: we're using message queues is not that
Caption: much important because as soon as you
Caption: have a message going let's say to update
Caption: the sales information or the price
Caption: information it might there might be
Caption: other updates coming through the
Caption: pipeline to update the the price further
Caption: so in can't really trusted accuracy and
Caption: it still suffers from that
Caption: the caching validation issues now the
Caption: fact that in real-world scenario
Caption: something looks something like this it
Caption: makes it more complex and that is
Caption: usually a cluster of register caches or
Caption: something like that that you need to
Caption: juggle and it makes the whole thing even
Caption: more complex so what we need to what we
Caption: need as a solution is something that
Caption: doesn't compromise the autonomy of our
Caption: marker services on the backend and still
Caption: is an easy enough solution for the
Caption: client to develop and we call this it
Caption: will model composition so you might ask
Caption: why do you model isn't this about the
Caption: user interface it is but the most
Caption: complex part of that UI is the data that
Caption: needs to get to the UI but we'll show
Caption: how we need to deal with the UI as well
Caption: just another thing to note is that this
Caption: only addresses the issue on the read
Caption: side of it it's about how to query in
Caption: the data and display it it doesn't
Caption: involve me taking the state or changing
Caption: the data on the database so that's
Caption: another problem altogether so in order
Caption: to to have a solution me too exactly
Caption: design our services on the back end but
Caption: and also we need to have something
Caption: running in the middle to be that
Caption: intermediary thing we call that a
Caption: composition gateway and from clients
Caption: perspective it's all good because we
Caption: need to interface with only one one
Caption: thing and that thing running on the
Caption: server space then once the request comes
Caption: in issues a multiple concurrent requests
Caption: to the back-end services and pitches all
Caption: the information as soon as all the
Caption: information come back in one by one
Caption: it puts it back into a kind of a view
Caption: model a dynamic object for lack of
Caption: better word and then returns that to the
Caption: client and the client renders that on
Caption: the screen as it sees the good thing
Caption: about this is that that composition case
Caption: is not an active thing it doesn't go
Caption: around and ask for information stored
Caption: somewhere and that means that we solved
Caption: the issue of autonomy so this the data
Caption: is still within the database of each
Caption: marker service and they own how long
Caption: it's going to remain in the cache and
Caption: things like that if you want to
Caption: introduce something like some
Caption: cross-cutting concerns like caching you
Caption: can do that at the service level so if
Caption: you remember we said that there needs to
Caption: be alignment from the business and to
Caption: cater for the business capability and it
Caption: makes sense as we see the services
Caption: remain autonomous so they manage their
Caption: own state sometimes it makes sense for
Caption: us for a service to go with the document
Caption: database sometimes it makes sense to go
Caption: for relational database and again that
Caption: comes back to the business capability
Caption: and alignment with the business you can
Caption: make that decision on their service
Caption: basis and you can add cross-cutting
Caption: concerns like caching where it makes
Caption: sense at the service level and not want
Caption: one cache or one rule fit them all and
Caption: it kind of makes sense because for
Caption: something like a price service or a
Caption: sales service the price might change
Caption: more more regularly maybe on an hourly
Caption: basis whereas comments and customer
Caption: ratings is not as much so you could have
Caption: different rules for each of those
Caption: services on how much you can gonna cash
Caption: that and store the data
Caption: same goes with something like error
Caption: handling
Caption: it might make sense for you to be able
Caption: to do that because again going back to
Caption: the business you need to decide what the
Caption: user experience is going to be if your
Caption: product reviews service is not available
Caption: that's not the end of the world you
Caption: could still have their business whereas
Caption: if something like a sales service is not
Caption: available you need to show an error page
Caption: maybe and this solution means that there
Caption: is no tight coupling as we saw but in
Caption: order for services to be able to
Caption: communicate with each other you need to
Caption: have some level of understanding and
Caption: that's using a unique identifier so when
Caption: you say go around and fetch information
Caption: about product ID ten all the services
Caption: need to understand what that product ID
Caption: 10 means now for the UI bit once you
Caption: solve the challenge of the data the UI
Caption: is kind of easy there is already a
Caption: standard for it
Caption: that's called web components anyone use
Caption: components before ok so look it up on it
Caption: it's a standard it's going to be
Caption: supported by all major browsers not the
Caption: JavaScript framework so you don't need
Caption: to be relying on a specific framework
Caption: for that only see the adoption could go
Caption: - can I use that comment search for web
Caption: components shows which major browsers
Caption: which versions currently support that
Caption: but essentially gives you a framework to
Caption: build your application as widgets and
Caption: it's the standard as I said I'm sorry
Caption: so standard as I said gives you
Caption: encapsulation so your UI widgets are
Caption: self-sufficient don't need to fight
Caption: couple them into each other there is
Caption: still a way to communicate with other
Caption: widgets using using events and it is
Caption: composable so you can create your whole
Caption: application using widgets or components
Caption: gives you things like custom elements
Caption: and shadow DOM and HTML imports and
Caption: things like that
Caption: now there is a quick demo to show how
Caption: this all works in practice but before we
Caption: get to that I'd like to emphasize this
Caption: anyone seen this this quote before
Caption: yeah this is called conveys law this
Caption: essentially tells you that your
Caption: organizational boundary and structure is
Caption: going to shape the way you create the
Caption: software so he did the research in 1968
Caption: and gather around 14 and ask him to
Caption: cooperate mature and work leisure to
Caption: create a compiler and they all went away
Caption: and work together and created a compiler
Caption: that was a four stage compiler not
Caption: necessarily because the first-stage
Caption: compiler makes sense
Caption: but because the way the teams are
Caption: structured the main and impact on and
Caption: the outcome so this is very important to
Caption: know it's because as I said for you to
Caption: have the proper marker service you need
Caption: to be able to structure your teams so
Caption: that their cross-functional team so that
Caption: you can manage all that vertical slice
Caption: within your team teams boundary so I'll
Caption: show you a quick demo
Caption: it shows you some of the stuff that I
Caption: talked about in practice the I'll put a
Caption: link at the end of the presentation to
Caption: their code repo so they do have a look
Caption: and see how it all works
Caption: so that this sample project uses an HP
Caption: net core and you choose some of the
Caption: concepts that we talked about in
Caption: practice and bring an open source the
Caption: name comes from the movie that was on
Caption: the slides as well what makes you
Caption: different makes you stronger so
Caption: hopefully got something to take away
Caption: from this so quickly this sample has two
Caption: modules or two services or two
Caption: microservices however you want to call
Caption: that and one is called sales which
Caption: manages sales information and order and
Caption: things like that the other is shipping
Caption: they're all self-sufficient so the team
Caption: will be taking care of that and each one
Caption: has components like it the database and
Caption: the view model composition we look into
Caption: and there is also the UI bits and the
Caption: API host is the actual thing the asking
Caption: that core with websites or web services
Caption: that Web API services that will be
Caption: running there is some sort of
Caption: communication between among will see how
Caption: that works and the main website is
Caption: hosted and this application and that's
Caption: just a standard website there is the
Caption: concept of the date and the gateway that
Caption: we saw from the slides that's also just
Caption: to simplify things it's hosted here so
Caption: let me just show you a demo of how this
Caption: works and then as well so you see that
Caption: there are two different back-end
Caption: components running and this is the main
Caption: website each of these services are just
Caption: as I said it's been that core verb API
Caption: there is no communication between them
Caption: at this point and there is the
Caption: simplified web application and I'll open
Caption: the developers tool so if you see what's
Caption: going on
Caption: the hood and as soon as I go to my
Caption: orders page it's gonna issue just one
Caption: request to fetch everything
Caption: if I go to the network tab because I a
Caption: filter for xhr interesting next web
Caption: request to fetch the information and if
Caption: you see there is only one you should be
Caption: requesting issue this goes to the
Caption: backend and that composition gateway as
Caption: I said issues multiple requests to fetch
Caption: everything and on the front end you see
Caption: that the result is come from compromised
Caption: of what the shipping information as well
Caption: as order information all in one response
Caption: have a look at that response new but
Caption: more detailed you see that it has
Caption: multiple entries it's a grid and each
Caption: entry has information from different
Caption: services on the backend and this is the
Caption: scenario of a table as I said and this
Caption: is another another example where you
Caption: have and identified that you need to
Caption: talk about and that's get sent to all
Caption: that those back-end services and they
Caption: can provide information for the client
Caption: to render now quickly going through the
Caption: code first of all the the UI bits are
Caption: kind of easy because they are managed by
Caption: the team working on that service so if
Caption: you have a look at the constructs of
Caption: that those widgets that's kind of simple
Caption: but you can see it is a lucky great
Caption: column that renders or goes out and
Caption: takes out that information from that
Caption: response and sent from the back in
Caption: service so then you are kind of BAM not
Caption: interesting
Caption: maybe the interesting is the view model
Caption: composition you won't have a look at
Caption: that it's got a concept of an app in
Caption: there and if you remember we said that
Caption: when you issue a request that the
Caption: composition gave a farz of requests
Caption: going on to the back-end services and
Caption: they can chime in if they're in
Caption: just that in giving your providing any
Caption: information for that request and that's
Caption: where the magic happens that matches is
Caption: telling you the one chime in and the
Caption: append is the actual logic to go out and
Caption: fetch information this is kind of a
Caption: simple scenario where you go to your
Caption: local with Web API and say give me all
Caption: the orders with the current with the
Caption: past in ID and then put that all in a
Caption: dynamic object and then the dynamic
Caption: object gets returned to the client and
Caption: same goes for when you want to render
Caption: the shipping information again same
Caption: concept as before it's an offender and
Caption: you go around and send that to a
Caption: different service this time and pick up
Caption: the information from the response and
Caption: put it in a dynamic view model and then
Caption: return it to the UI to render and the
Caption: actual UI is also as I said developed by
Caption: the same team so because it might cut
Caption: you off at firstly thinking that if it's
Caption: a dynamic object you don't know what's
Caption: in there but because of the fact that
Caption: the same thing will be rocking the
Caption: backend component and the front-end
Caption: component they know what to look for and
Caption: what it looks like when they want to
Caption: pick that information the only tricky
Caption: thing is that where is a scenario where
Caption: you need to load the information after
Caption: certain thing is loaded like the example
Caption: of loading a shipping information for
Caption: either multiple multiple orders first
Caption: you need to have those orders loaded
Caption: before you have those IDs so you can
Caption: have a lookup in the database to fetch
Caption: their status and for that there is a
Caption: concept of published pops up publisher
Caption: subscriber so you listen to an event
Caption: called orders loaded and once that
Caption: happens you go kind of do the same thing
Caption: but it's essentially it's like a promise
Caption: or if you've used that containment
Caption: terminology before it's just waiting for
Caption: an event to fire off and then that
Caption: those something but there is is kind of
Caption: the same and the last but not least how
Caption: to plug it in it's kind of easy
Caption: so this is a standard it's been a core
Caption: application all you need to do is to
Caption: plug in this using this method
Caption: extinction method and that goes around
Caption: until it's been a core of an ax plug-in
Caption: into the get request when there is a get
Caption: request there is a component that will
Caption: fire that off to multiple back-end
Caption: services and this is very you can
Caption: fine-tune what's gonna happen if the
Caption: service is down or crash is not
Caption: providing response on time and then you
Caption: can make that decision based on their
Caption: requirements coming from the business
Caption: the rest is all in IT ops and that's
Caption: kind of the infrastructure code and the
Caption: way that it's all put together for the
Caption: where the clients perspective is that
Caption: let's say you have a view and the view
Caption: is using those components created by the
Caption: UI developer in that team and then it's
Caption: just put together and packaged as a web
Caption: application all ultimately and just
Caption: going back to the demo
Caption: the only thing that makes this all magic
Caption: work is that the composition gateway is
Caption: listening on a specific route and and as
Caption: soon as you hit a specific route that's
Caption: going to get activated and far as up
Caption: requests to to your banking services so
Caption: a slush compose is where that API is
Caption: listening and as soon as it gets to
Caption: incoming requests as far as up the
Caption: request to fetch information and it goes
Caption: to the backend services and that's the
Caption: extent of it if you're interested the
Caption: code is available on github and you
Caption: could pick it up and see what it looks
Caption: like in more detail
Caption: okay so the code is available in that
Caption: URL if you're interested in this subject
Caption: colleague of mine has a blog post about
Caption: it's called the secrets of whether you
Caption: are composition it goes me to detail
Caption: about the concept and a few strategies
Caption: there's also the advanced distributed
Caption: system design by you did honk that goes
Caption: into the subject of services I saw a
Caption: marker services thing you are
Caption: composition and there is a workshop in
Caption: NDC Sydney if you plan to attend and
Caption: that's also going over the UART
Caption: composition stuff thank you for being
Caption: here today
Caption: [Applause]